Let's talk about layers now layers are a very important part of Photoshop.
And what make it so great.
So if we come over here to the bottom right hand corner you'll see our layers area.
Right now we only have one layer it's labeled layer 0 to add another layer.
We come down to this icon that looks like a piece of paper with a folded corner.
It's right between the trash can and the folder.
So go ahead and click that and it will add another layer.
Now what we can do is we can come over and select a color and use our brush tool to create a squiggle
.
Now this brushstroke is on Layer 1 and layer 0 is a completely separate layer.
So if we turn off layer one by clicking on the eye icon it turns it off.
But our layer 0 is unaffected.
We can turn that back on and I'll further illustrate this by adding a third layer.
So let's come over here and select a new color let's choose green.
And now we can paint on top of that layer and this green squiggle is on its own separate layer now.
So if we turn that layer off you'll see it doesn't affect the red layer.
Another cool thing you can do with layers is you can switch places so if we click and if we grab layer
2 we can drag it down underneath layer 1 and they switch places which is really helpful to do for doing
a lot of things in Photoshop.
Now some people get a little confused about layers so I'm going to illustrate this for you guys who
are having a hard time with it.
So if you come over here to our layer's area let's imagine that each layer is like a sheet of glass
and it's stack of glass or a stack of sheets of glass.
The bottom layer is on the bottom of the stack and the top layer is on the top of the stack on each
sheet of glass.
We can paint and create images on them.
So if we were to come up to our free paint on Layer 2 that is the sheet of glass in the middle of these
two sheets of glass so we can paint on that.
And when we turn that layer off all we're doing is we're removing that sheet of glass and bringing it
back when we turn it back on.
I find that's a very simple and easy way to think about layers.
Go ahead and mess around with the lares see what you can do with it.
And once you've had a little bit of practice with that you can go ahead and move onto the next part
of the course.